She reached the final deck hatch, the one that led into engineering, and
stopped when the hatch didn’t open automatically. A red light on the lock
panel showed that the room had been sealed from the inside. She thought
again about radiation and major failures. But if either of those was the case,
why lock the door from the inside? And she had passed wall panel after
wall panel. None of them had been flashing warnings of any kind. No, not
radiation, something else.
There was more disruption here. Blood. Tools and containers in disarray.
Whatever had happened, it had happened here. No, it had started here. And
it had eneded behind that locked door.
It took two hours with a torch and prying tools from the machine shop to
cut through the hatch to engineering. With the hydraulics compromised, she
had to crank it open by hand. A gust of warm wet air blew out, carrying a
hospital scent without the antiseptic. A coppery, nauseating smell. The
torture chamber, then. Her friends would be inside, beaten or cut to pieces.
Julie hefted her wrench and prepared to bust open at least one head before
they killed her. She floated down.
The engineering deck was huge, vaulted like a cathedral. The fusion
reactor dominated the central space. Something was wrong with it. Where
she expected to see readouts, shielding, and monitors, a layer of something
like mud seemed to flow over the reactor core. Slowly, Julie floated toward
it, one hand still on the ladder. The strange smell became overpowering.
The mud caked around the reactor had structure to it like nothing she’d
seen before. Tubes ran through it like veins or airways. Parts of it pulsed.
Not mud, then.
Flesh.
An outcropping of the thing shifted toward her. Compared to the whole,
it seemed no larger than a toe, a little finger. It was Captain Darren’s head.
“Help me,” it said.

Chapter One: Holden
A hundred and fifty years before, when the parochial disagreements
between Earth and Mars had been on the verge of war, the Belt had been a
far horizon of tremendous mineral wealth beyond viable economic reach,
and the outer planets had been beyond even the most unrealistic corporate
dream. Then Solomon Epstein had built his little modified fusion drive,
popped it on the back of his three-man yacht, and turned it on. With a good
scope, you could still see his ship going at a marginal percentage of the
speed of light, heading out into the big empty. The best, longest funeral in
the history of mankind. Fortunately, he’d left the plans on his home
computer. The Epstein Drive hadn’t given humanity the stars, but it had
delivered the planets.
Three-quarters of a kilometer long, a quarter of a kilometer wide—
roughly shaped like a fire hydrant—and mostly empty space inside, the
Canterbury was a retooled colony transport. Once, it had been packed with
people, supplies, schematics, machines, environment bubbles, and hope.
Just under twenty million people lived on the moons of Saturn now. The
Canterbury had hauled nearly a million of their ancestors there. Forty-five
million on the moons of Jupiter. One moon of Uranus sported five
thousand, the farthest outpost of human civilization, at least until the
Mormons finished their generation ship and headed for the stars and
freedom from procreation restrictions.
And then there was the Belt.
If you asked OPA recruiters when they were drunk and feeling
expansive, they might say there were a hundred million in the Belt. Ask an
inner planet census taker, it was nearer to fifty million. Any way you
looked, the population was huge and needed a lot of water.
So now the Canterbury and her dozens of sister ships in the Pur’n’Kleen
Water Company made the loop from Saturn’s generous rings to the Belt and

back hauling glaciers, and would until the ships aged into salvage wrecks.
Jim Holden saw some poetry in that.
“Holden?”
He turned back to the hangar deck. Chief Engineer Naomi Nagata
towered over him. She stood almost two full meters tall, her mop of curly
hair tied back into a black tail, her expression halfway between amusement
and annoyance. She had the Belter habit of shrugging with her hands
instead of her shoulders.
“Holden, are you listening, or just staring out the window?”
“There was a problem,” Holden said. “And because you’re really, really
good, you can fix it even though you don’t have enough money or
supplies.”
Naomi laughed.
“So you weren’t listening,” she said.
“Not really, no.”
“Well, you got the basics right anyhow. Knight’s landing gear isn’t going
to be good in atmosphere until I can get the seals replaced. That going to be
a problem?”
“I’ll ask the old man,” Holden said. “But when’s the last time we used
the shuttle in atmosphere?”
“Never, but regs say we need at least one atmo-capable shuttle.”
“Hey, Boss!” Amos Burton, Naomi’s earthborn assistant, yelled from
across the bay. He waved one meaty arm in their general direction. He
meant Naomi. Amos might be on Captain McDowell’s ship; Holden might
be executive officer; but in Amos Burton’s world, only Naomi was boss.
“What’s the matter?” Naomi shouted back.
“Bad cable. Can you hold this little fucker in place while I get the
spare?”
Naomi looked at Holden, Are we done here? in her eyes. He snapped a
sarcastic salute and she snorted, shaking her head as she walked away, her
frame long and thin in her greasy coveralls.
Seven years in Earth’s navy, five years working in space with civilians,
and he’d never gotten used to the long, thin, improbable bones of Belters. A
childhood spent in gravity shaped the way he saw things forever.
At the central lift, Holden held his finger briefly over the button for the
navigation deck, tempted by the prospect of Ade Tukunbo—her smile, her

voice, the patchouli-and-vanilla scent she used in her hair—but pressed the
button for the infirmary instead. Duty before pleasure.
Shed Garvey, the medical tech, was hunched over his lab table,
debriding the stump of Cameron Paj’s left arm, when Holden walked in. A
month earlier, Paj had gotten his elbow pinned by a thirty-ton block of ice
moving at five millimeters a second. It wasn’t an uncommon injury among
people with the dangerous job of cutting and moving zero-g icebergs, and
Paj was taking the whole thing with the fatalism of a professional. Holden
leaned over Shed’s shoulder to watch as the tech plucked one of the medical
maggots out of dead tissue.
“What’s the word?” Holden asked.
“It’s looking pretty good, sir,” Paj said. “I’ve still got a few nerves.
Shed’s been tellin’ me about how the prosthetic is gonna hook up to it.”
“Assuming we can keep the necrosis under control,” the medic said,
“and make sure Paj doesn’t heal up too much before we get to Ceres. I
checked the policy, and Paj here’s been signed on long enough to get one
with force feedback, pressure and temperature sensors, fine-motor software.
The whole package. It’ll be almost as good as the real thing. The inner
planets have a new biogel that regrows the limb, but that isn’t covered in
our medical plan.”
“Fuck the Inners, and fuck their magic Jell-O. I’d rather have a good
Belter-built fake than anything those bastards grow in a lab. Just wearing
their fancy arm probably turns you into an asshole,” Paj said. Then he
added, “Oh, uh, no offense, XO.”
“None taken. Just glad we’re going to get you fixed up,” Holden said.
“Tell him the other bit,” Paj said with a wicked grin. Shed blushed.
“I’ve, ah, heard from other guys who’ve gotten them,” Shed said, not
meeting Holden’s eyes. “Apparently there’s a period while you’re still
building identification with the prosthetic when whacking off feels just like
getting a hand job.”
Holden let the comment hang in the air for a second while Shed’s ears
turned crimson.
“Good to know,” Holden said. “And the necrosis?”
“There’s some infection,” Shed said. “The maggots are keeping it under
control, and the inflammation’s actually a good thing in this context, so
we’re not fighting too hard unless it starts to spread.”

“Is he going to be ready for the next run?” Holden asked.
For the first time, Paj frowned.
“Shit yes, I’ll be ready. I’m always ready. This is what I do, sir.”
“Probably,” Shed said. “Depending on how the bond takes. If not this
one, the one after.”
“Fuck that,” Paj said. “I can buck ice one-handed better than half the
skags you’ve got on this bitch.”
“Again,” Holden said, suppressing a grin, “good to know. Carry on.”
Paj snorted. Shed plucked another maggot free. Holden went back to the
lift, and this time he didn’t hesitate.
The navigation station of the Canterbury didn’t dress to impress. The
great wall-sized displays Holden had imagined when he’d first volunteered
for the navy did exist on capital ships but, even there, more as an artifact of
design than need. Ade sat at a pair of screens only slightly larger than a
hand terminal, graphs of the efficiency and output of the Canterbury’s
reactor and engine updating in the corners, raw logs spooling on the right as
the systems reported in. She wore thick headphones that covered her ears,
the faint thump of the bass line barely escaping. If the Canterbury sensed an
anomaly, it would alert her. If a system errored, it would alert her. If
Captain McDowell left the command and control deck, it would alert her so
she could turn the music off and look busy when he arrived. Her petty
hedonism was only one of a thousand things that made Ade attractive to
Holden. He walked up behind her, pulled the headphones gently away from
her ears, and said, “Hey.”
Ade smiled, tapped her screen, and dropped the headphones to rest
around her long slim neck like technical jewelry.
“Executive Officer James Holden,” she said with an exaggerated
formality made even more acute by her thick Nigerian accent. “And what
can I do for you?”
“You know, it’s funny you should ask that,” he said. “I was just thinking
how pleasant it would be to have someone come back to my cabin when
third shift takes over. Have a little romantic dinner of the same crap they’re
serving in the galley. Listen to some music.”
“Drink a little wine,” she said. “Break a little protocol. Pretty to think
about, but I’m not up for sex tonight.”
“I wasn’t talking about sex. A little food. Conversation.”

“I was talking about sex,” she said.
Holden knelt beside her chair. In the one-third g of their current thrust, it
was perfectly comfortable. Ade’s smile softened. The log spool chimed; she
glanced at it, tapped a release, and turned back to him.
“Ade, I like you. I mean, I really enjoy your company,” he said. “I don’t
understand why we can’t spend some time together with our clothes on.”
“Holden. Sweetie. Stop it, okay?”
“Stop what?”
“Stop trying to turn me into your girlfriend. You’re a nice guy. You’ve
got a cute butt, and you’re fun in the sack. Doesn’t mean we’re engaged.”
Holden rocked back on his heels, feeling himself frown.
“Ade. For this to work for me, it needs to be more than that.”
“But it isn’t,” she said, taking his hand. “It’s okay that it isn’t. You’re the
XO here, and I’m a short-timer. Another run, maybe two, and I’m gone.”
“I’m not chained to this ship either.”
Her laughter was equal parts warmth and disbelief.
“How long have you been on the Cant?”
“Five years.”
“You’re not going anyplace,” she said. “You’re comfortable here.”
“Comfortable?” he said. “The Cant’s a century-old ice hauler. You can
find a shittier flying job, but you have to try really hard. Everyone here is
either wildly under-qualified or seriously screwed things up at their last
gig.”
“And you’re comfortable here.” Her eyes were less kind now. She bit
her lip, looked down at the screen, looked up.
“I didn’t deserve that,” he said.
“You didn’t,” she agreed. “Look, I told you I wasn’t in the mood tonight.
I’m feeling cranky. I need a good night’s sleep. I’ll be nicer tomorrow.”
“Promise?”
“I’ll even make you dinner. Apology accepted?”
He slipped forward, pressed his lips to hers. She kissed back, politely at
first and then with more warmth. Her fingers cupped his neck for a moment,
then pulled him away.
“You’re entirely too good at that. You should go now,” she said. “On
duty and all.”
“Okay,” he said, and didn’t turn to go.

“Jim,” she said, and the shipwide comm system clicked on.
“Holden to the bridge,” Captain McDowell said, his voice compressed
and echoing. Holden replied with something obscene. Ade laughed. He
swooped in, kissed her cheek, and headed back for the central lift, quietly
hoping that Captain McDowell suffered boils and public humiliation for his
lousy timing.
The bridge was hardly larger than Holden’s quarters and smaller by half
than the galley. Except for the slightly oversized captain’s display, required
by Captain McDowell’s failing eyesight and general distrust of corrective
surgery, it could have been an accounting firm’s back room. The air smelled
of cleaning astringent and someone’s overly strong yerba maté tea.
McDowell shifted in his seat as Holden approached. Then the captain
leaned back, pointing over his shoulder at the communications station.
“Becca!” McDowell snapped. “Tell him.”
Rebecca Byers, the comm officer on duty, could have been bred from a
shark and a hatchet. Black eyes, sharp features, lips so thin they might as
well not have existed. The story on board was that she’d taken the job to
escape prosecution for killing an ex-husband. Holden liked her.
“Emergency signal,” she said. “Picked it up two hours ago. The
transponder verification just bounced back from Callisto. It’s real.”
“Ah,” Holden said. And then: “Shit. Are we the closest?”
“Only ship in a few million klicks.”
“Well. That figures,” Holden said.
Becca turned her gaze to the captain. McDowell cracked his knuckles
and stared at his display. The light from the screen gave him an odd
greenish cast.
“It’s next to a charted non-Belt asteroid,” McDowell said.
“Really?” Holden said in disbelief. “Did they run into it? There’s
nothing else out here for millions of kilometers.”
“Maybe they pulled over because someone had to go potty. All we have
is that some knucklehead is out there, blasting an emergency signal, and
we’re the closest. Assuming… ”
The law of the solar system was unequivocal. In an environment as
hostile to life as space, the aid and goodwill of your fellow humans wasn’t
optional. The emergency signal, just by existing, obligated the nearest ship

to stop and render aid—which didn’t mean the law was universally
followed.
The Canterbury was fully loaded. Well over a million tons of ice had
been gently accelerated for the past month. Just like the little glacier that
had crushed Paj’s arm, it was going to be hard to slow down. The
temptation to have an unexplained comm failure, erase the logs, and let the
great god Darwin have his way was always there.
But if McDowell had really intended that, he wouldn’t have called
Holden up. Or made the suggestion where the crew could hear him. Holden
understood the dance. The captain was going to be the one who would have
blown it off except for Holden. The grunts would respect the captain for not
wanting to cut into the ship’s profit. They’d respect Holden for insisting that
they follow the rule. No matter what happened, the captain and Holden
would both be hated for what they were required by law and mere human
decency to do.
“We have to stop,” Holden said. Then, gamely: “There may be salvage.”
McDowell tapped his screen. Ade’s voice came from the console, as low
and warm as if she’d been in the room.
“Captain?”
“I need numbers on stopping this crate,” he said.
“Sir?”
“How hard is it going to be to put us alongside CA-2216862?”
“We’re stopping at an asteroid?”
“I’ll tell you when you’ve followed my order, Navigator Tukunbo.”
“Yes, sir,” she said. Holden heard a series of clicks. “If we flip the ship
right now and burn like hell for most of two days, I can get us within fifty
thousand kilometers, sir.”
“Can you define ‘burn like hell’?” McDowell said.
“We’ll need everyone in crash couches.”
“Of course we will,” McDowell sighed, and scratched his scruffy beard.
“And shifting ice is only going to do a couple million bucks’ worth of
banging up the hull, if we’re lucky. I’m getting old for this, Holden. I really
am.”
“Yes, sir. You are. And I’ve always liked your chair,” Holden said.
McDowell scowled and made an obscene gesture. Rebecca snorted in
laughter. McDowell turned to her.

“Send a message to the beacon that we’re on our way. And let Ceres
know we’re going to be late. Holden, where does the Knight stand?”
“No flying in atmosphere until we get some parts, but she’ll do fine for
fifty thousand klicks in vacuum.”
“You’re sure of that?”
“Naomi said it. That makes it true.”
McDowell rose, unfolding to almost two and a quarter meters and
thinner than a teenager back on Earth. Between his age and never having
lived in a gravity well, the coming burn was likely to be hell on the old
man. Holden felt a pang of sympathy that he would never embarrass
McDowell by expressing.
“Here’s the thing, Jim,” McDowell said, his voice quiet enough that only
Holden could hear him. “We’re required to stop and make an attempt, but
we don’t have to go out of our way, if you see what I mean.”
“We’ll already have stopped,” Holden said, and McDowell patted at the
air with his wide, spidery hands. One of the many Belter gestures that had
evolved to be visible when wearing an environment suit.
“I can’t avoid that,” he said. “But if you see anything out there that
seems off, don’t play hero again. Just pack up the toys and come home.”
“And leave it for the next ship that comes through?”
“And keep yourself safe,” McDowell said. “Order. Understood?”
“Understood,” Holden said.
As the shipwide comm system clicked to life and McDowell began
explaining the situation to the crew, Holden imagined he could hear a
chorus of groans coming up through the decks. He went over to Rebecca.
“Okay,” he said, “what have we got on the broken ship?”
“Light freighter. Martian registry. Shows Eros as home port. Calls itself
Scopuli… ”

Chapter Two: Miller
Detective Miller sat back on the foam-core chair, smiling gentle
encouragement while he scrambled to make sense of the girl’s story.
“And then it was all pow! Room full up with bladeboys howling and
humping shank,” the girl said, waving a hand. “Look like a dance number,
’cept that Bomie’s got this look he didn’t know nothing never and ever
amen. You know, que?”
Havelock, standing by the door, blinked twice. The squat man’s face
twitched with impatience. It was why Havelock was never going to make
senior detective. And why he sucked at poker.
Miller was very good at poker.
“I totally,” Miller said. His voice had taken on the twang of an inner
level resident. He waved his hand in the same lazy arc the girl used.
“Bomie, he didn’t see. Forgotten arm.”
“Forgotten fucking arm, yeah,” the girl said as if Miller had spoken a
line of gospel. Miller nodded, and the girl nodded back like they were two
birds doing a mating dance.
The rent hole was three cream-and-black-fleck-painted rooms—
bathroom, kitchen, living room. The struts of a pull-down sleeping loft in
the living room had been broken and repaired so many times they didn’t
retract anymore. This near the center of Ceres’ spin, that wasn’t from
gravity so much as mass in motion. The air smelled beery with old protein
yeast and mushrooms. Local food, so whoever had bounced the girl hard
enough to break her bed hadn’t paid enough for dinner. Or maybe they did,
and the girl had chosen to spend it on heroin or malta or MCK.
Her business, either way.
“Follow que?” Miller asked.
“Bomie vacuate like losing air,” the girl said with a chuckle. “Bang-head
hops, kennis tu?”

“Ken,” Miller said.
“Now, all new bladeboys. Overhead. I’m out.”
“And Bomie?”
The girl’s eyes made a slow track up Miller, shoes to knees to porkpie
hat. Miller chuckled. He gave the chair a light push, sloping up to his feet in
the low gravity.
“He shows, and I asked, que si?” Miller said.
“Como no?” the girl said. Why not?
The tunnel outside was white where it wasn’t grimy. Ten meters wide,
and gently sloping up in both directions. The white LED lights didn’t
pretend to mimic sunlight. About half a kilometer down, someone had
rammed into the wall so hard the native rock showed through, and it still
hadn’t been repaired. Maybe it wouldn’t be. This was the deep dig, way up
near the center of spin. Tourists never came here.
Havelock led the way to their cart, bouncing too high with every step.
He didn’t come up to the low gravity levels very often, and it made him
awkward. Miller had lived on Ceres his whole life, and truth to tell, the
Coriolis effect up this high could make him a little unsteady sometimes too.
“So,” Havelock said as he punched in their destination code, “did you
have fun?”
“Don’t know what you mean,” Miller said.
The electrical motors hummed to life, and the cart lurched forward into
the tunnel, squishy foam tires faintly squeaking.
“Having your outworld conversation in front of the Earth guy?”
Havelock said. “I couldn’t follow even half of that.”
“That wasn’t Belters keeping the Earth guy out,” Miller said. “That was
poor folks keeping the educated guy out. And it was kind of fun, now you
mention it.”
Havelock laughed. He could take being teased and keep on moving. It
was what made him good at team sports: soccer, basketball, politics.
Miller wasn’t much good at those.
Ceres, the port city of the Belt and the outer planets, boasted two
hundred fifty kilometers in diameter, tens of thousands of kilometers of
tunnels in layer on layer on layer. Spinning it up to 0.3 g had taken the best
minds at Tycho Manufacturing half a generation, and they were still pretty
smug about it. Now Ceres had more than six million permanent residents,

and as many as a thousand ships docking in any given day meant upping the
population to as high as seven million.
Platinum, iron, and titanium from the Belt. Water from Saturn,
vegetables and beef from the big mirror-fed greenhouses on Ganymede and
Europa, organics from Earth and Mars. Power cells from Io, Helium-3 from
the refineries on Rhea and Iapetus. A river of wealth and power unrivaled in
human history came through Ceres. Where there was commerce on that
level, there was also crime. Where there was crime, there were security
forces to keep it in check. Men like Miller and Havelock, whose business it
was to track the electric carts up the wide ramps, feel the false gravity of
spin fall away beneath them, and ask low-rent glitz whores about what
happened the night Bomie Chatterjee stopped collecting protection money
for the Golden Bough Society.
The primary station house for Star Helix Security, police force and
military garrison for the Ceres Station, was on the third level from the
asteroid’s skin, two kilometers square and dug into the rock so high Miller
could walk from his desk up five levels without ever leaving the offices.
Havelock turned in the cart while Miller went to his cubicle, downloaded
the recording of their interview with the girl, and reran it. He was halfway
through when his partner lumbered up behind him.
“Learn anything?” Havelock asked.
“Not much,” Miller said. “Bomie got jumped by a bunch of unaffiliated
local thugs. Sometimes a low-level guy like Bomie will hire people to
pretend to attack him so he can heroically fight them off. Ups his
reputation. That’s what she meant when she called it a dance number. The
guys that went after him were that caliber, only instead of turning into a
ninja badass, Bomie ran away and hasn’t come back.”
“And now?”
“And now nothing,” Miller said. “That’s what I don’t get. Someone took
out a Golden Bough purse boy, and there’s no payback. I mean, okay,
Bomie’s a bottom-feeder, but… ”
“But once they start eating the little guys, there’s less money coming up
to the big guys,” Havelock said. “So why hasn’t the Golden Bough meted
out some gangster justice?”
“I don’t like this,” Miller said.

Havelock laughed. “Belters,” he said. “One thing goes weird and you
think the whole ecosystem’s crashing. If the Golden Bough’s too weak to
keep its claims, that’s a good thing. They’re the bad guys, remember?”
“Yeah, well,” Miller said. “Say what you will about organized crime, at
least it’s organized.”
Havelock sat on the small plastic chair beside Miller’s desk and craned
to watch the playback.
“Okay,” Havelock said. “What the hell is the ‘forgotten arm’?”
“Boxing term,” Miller said. “It’s the hit you didn’t see coming.”
The computer chimed and Captain Shaddid’s voice came from the
speakers.
“Miller? Are you there?”
“Mmm,” Havelock said. “Bad omen.”
“What?” the captain asked, her voice sharp. She had never quite
overcome her prejudice against Havelock’s inner planet origins. Miller held
up a hand to silence his partner.
“Here, Captain. What can I do for you?”
“Meet me in my office, please.”
“On my way,” he said.
Miller stood, and Havelock slid into his chair. They didn’t speak. Both
of them knew that Captain Shaddid would have called them in together if
she’d wanted Havelock to be there. Another reason the man would never
make senior detective. Miller left him alone with the playback, trying to
parse the fine points of class and station, origin and race. Lifetime’s work,
that.
Captain Shaddid’s office was decorated in a soft, feminine style. Real
cloth tapestries hung from the walls, and the scent of coffee and cinnamon
came from an insert in her air filter that cost about a tenth of what the real
foodstuffs would have. She wore her uniform casually, her hair down
around her shoulders in violation of corporate regulations. If Miller had
ever been called upon to describe her, the phrase deceptive coloration
would have figured in. She nodded to a chair, and he sat.
“What have you found?” she asked, but her gaze was on the wall behind
him. This wasn’t a pop quiz; she was just making conversation.
“Golden Bough’s looking the same as Sohiro’s crew and the Loca
Greiga. Still on station, but… distracted, I guess I’d call it. They’re letting

little things slide. Fewer thugs on the ground, less enforcement. I’ve got
half a dozen mid-level guys who’ve gone dark.”
He’d caught her attention.
“Killed?” she asked. “An OPA advance?”
An advance by the Outer Planets Alliance was the constant bogeyman of
Ceres security. Living in the tradition of Al Capone and Hamas, the IRA
and the Red Martials, the OPA was beloved by the people it helped and
feared by the ones who got in its way. Part social movement, part wannabe
nation, and part terrorist network, it totally lacked an institutional
conscience. Captain Shaddid might not like Havelock because he was from
down a gravity well, but she’d work with him. The OPA would have put
him in an airlock. People like Miller would only rate getting a bullet in the
skull, and a nice plastic one at that. Nothing that might get shrapnel in the
ductwork.
“I don’t think so,” he said. “It doesn’t smell like a war. It’s… Honestly,
sir, I don’t know what the hell it is. The numbers are great. Protection’s
down, unlicensed gambling’s down. Cooper and Hariri shut down the
underage whorehouse up on six, and as far as anyone can tell, it hasn’t
started up again. There’s a little more action by independents, but that aside,
it’s all looking great. It just smells funny.”
She nodded, but her gaze was back on the wall. He’d lost her interest as
quickly as he’d gotten it.
“Well, put it aside,” she said. “I have something. New contract. Just you.
Not Havelock.”
Miller crossed his arms.
“New contract,” he said slowly. “Meaning?”
“Meaning Star Helix Security has accepted a contract for services
separate from the Ceres security assignment, and in my role as site manager
for the corporation, I’m assigning you to it.”
“I’m fired?” he said.
Captain Shaddid looked pained.
“It’s additional duty,” she said. “You’ll still have the Ceres assignments
you have now. It’s just that, in addition… Look, Miller, I think this is as
shitty as you do. I’m not pulling you off station. I’m not taking you off the
main contract. This is a favor someone down on Earth is doing for a
shareholder.”

“We’re doing favors for shareholders now?” Miller asked.
“You are, yes,” Captain Shaddid said. The softness was gone; the
conciliatory tone was gone. Her eyes were dark as wet stone.
“Right, then,” Miller said. “I guess I am.”
Captain Shaddid held up her hand terminal. Miller fumbled at his side,
pulled out his own, and accepted the narrow-beam transfer. Whatever this
was, Shaddid was keeping it off the common network. A new file tree,
labeled JMAO, appeared on his readout.
“It’s a little-lost-daughter case,” Captain Shaddid said. “Ariadne and
Jules-Pierre Mao.”
The names rang a bell. Miller pressed his fingertips onto the screen of
his hand terminal.
“Mao-Kwikowski Mercantile?” he asked.
“The one.”
Miller whistled low.
Maokwik might not have been one of the top ten corporations in the
Belt, but it was certainly in the upper fifty. Originally, it had been a legal
firm involved in the epic failure of the Venusian cloud cities. They’d used
the money from that decades-long lawsuit to diversify and expand, mostly
into interplanetary transport. Now the corporate station was independent,
floating between the Belt and the inner planets with the regal majesty of an
ocean liner on ancient seas. The simple fact that Miller knew that much
about them meant they had enough money to buy and sell men like him on
open exchange.
He’d just been bought.
“They’re Luna-based,” Captain Shaddid said. “All the rights and
privileges of Earth citizenship. But they do a lot of shipping business out
here.”
“And they misplaced a daughter?”
“Black sheep,” the captain said. “Went off to college, got involved with
a group called the Far Horizons Foundation. Student activists.”
“OPA front,” Miller said.
“Associated,” Shaddid corrected him. Miller let it pass, but a flicker of
curiosity troubled him. He wondered which side Captain Shaddid would be
on if the OPA attacked. “The family put it down to a phase. They’ve got

two older children with controlling interest, so if Julie wanted to bounce
around vacuum calling herself a freedom fighter, there was no real harm.”
“But now they want her found,” Miller said.
“They do.”
“What changed?”
“They didn’t see fit to share that information.”
“Right.”
“Last records show she was employed on Tycho Station but maintained
an apartment here. I’ve found her partition on the network and locked it
down. The password is in your files.”
“Okay,” Miller said. “What’s my contract?”
“Find Julie Mao, detain her, and ship her home.”
“A kidnap job, then,” he said.
“Yes.”
Miller stared down at his hand terminal, flicking the files open without
particularly looking at them. A strange knot had tied itself in his guts. He’d
been working Ceres security for sixteen years, and he hadn’t started with
many illusions in place. The joke was that Ceres didn’t have laws—it had
police. His hands weren’t any cleaner than Captain Shaddid’s. Sometimes
people fell out airlocks. Sometimes evidence vanished from the lockers. It
wasn’t so much that it was right or wrong as that it was justified. You spent
your life in a stone bubble with your food, your water, your air shipped in
from places so distant you could barely find them with a telescope, and a
certain moral flexibility was necessary. But he’d never had to take a kidnap
job before.
“Problem, Detective?” Captain Shaddid asked.
“No, sir,” he said. “I’ll take care of it.”
“Don’t spend too much time on it,” she said.
“Yes, sir. Anything else?”
Captain Shaddid’s hard eyes softened, like she was putting on a mask.
She smiled.
“Everything going well with your partner?”
“Havelock’s all right,” Miller said. “Having him around makes people
like me better by contrast. That’s nice.”
Her smile’s only change was to become half a degree more genuine.
Nothing like a little shared racism to build ties with the boss. Miller nodded

respectfully and headed out.

His hole was on the eighth level, off a residential tunnel a hundred meters
wide with fifty meters of carefully cultivated green park running down the
center. The main corridor’s vaulted ceiling was lit by recessed lights and
painted a blue that Havelock assured him matched the Earth’s summer sky.
Living on the surface of a planet, mass sucking at every bone and muscle,
and nothing but gravity to keep your air close, seemed like a fast path to
crazy. The blue was nice, though.
Some people followed Captain Shaddid’s lead by perfuming their air.
Not always with coffee and cinnamon scents, of course. Havelock’s hole
smelled of baking bread. Others opted for floral scents or semipheromones.
Candace, Miller’s ex-wife, had preferred something called EarthLily, which
had always made him think of the waste recycling levels. These days, he
left it at the vaguely astringent smell of the station itself. Recycled air that
had passed through a million lungs. Water from the tap so clean it could be
used for lab work, but it had been piss and shit and tears and blood and
would be again. The circle of life on Ceres was so small you could see the
curve. He liked it that way.
He poured a glass of moss whiskey, a native Ceres liquor made from
engineered yeast, then took off his shoes and settled onto the foam bed. He
could still see Candace’s disapproving scowl and hear her sigh. He
shrugged apology to her memory and turned back to work.
Juliette Andromeda Mao. He read through her work history, her
academic records. Talented pinnace pilot. There was a picture of her at
eighteen in a tailored vac suit with the helmet off: pretty girl with a thin,
lunar citizen’s frame and long black hair. She was grinning like the universe
had given her a kiss. The linked text said she’d won first place in something
called the Parrish/Dorn 500K. He searched briefly. Some kind of race only

really rich people could afford to fly in. Her pinnace—the Razorback—had
beaten the previous record and held it for two years.
Miller sipped his whiskey and wondered what had happened to the girl
with enough wealth and power to own a private ship that would bring her
here. It was a long way from competing in expensive space races to being
hog-tied and sent home in a pod. Or maybe it wasn’t.
“Poor little rich girl,” Miller said to the screen. “Sucks to be you, I
guess.”
He closed the files and drank quietly and seriously, staring at the blank
ceiling above him. The chair where Candace used to sit and ask him about
his day stood empty, but he could see her there anyway. Now that she
wasn’t here to make him talk, it was easier to respect the impulse. She’d
been lonely. He could see that now. In his imagination, she rolled her eyes.
An hour later, his blood warm with drink, he heated up a bowl of real
rice and fake beans—yeast and fungus could mimic anything if you had
enough whiskey first—opened the door of his hole, and ate dinner looking
out at the traffic gently curving by. The second shift streamed into the tube
stations and then out of them. The kids who lived two holes down—a girl of
eight and her brother of four—met their father with hugs, squeals, mutual
accusations, and tears. The blue ceiling glowed in its reflected light,
unchanging, static, reassuring. A sparrow fluttered down the tunnel,
hovering in a way that Havelock assured him they couldn’t on Earth. Miller
threw it a fake bean.
He tried to think about the Mao girl, but in truth he didn’t much care.
Something was happening to the organized crime families of Ceres, and it
made him jumpy as hell.
This thing with Julie Mao? It was a sideshow.

Chapter Three: Holden
After nearly two full days in high gravity, Holden’s knees and back and
neck ached. And his head. Hell, his feet. He walked in the crew hatch of the
Knight just as Naomi was climbing up the ladder from its cargo bay. She
smiled and gave him a thumbs-up.
“The salvage mech is locked down,” she said. “Reactor is warming up.
We’re ready to fly.”
“Good.”
“We got a pilot yet?” she asked.
“Alex Kamal is on the ready rotation today, so he’s our man. I kind of
wish Valka had been up. He’s not the pilot Alex is, but he’s quieter, and my
head hurts.”
“I like Alex. He’s ebullient,” Naomi said.
“I don’t know what ebullient means, but if it means Alex, it makes me
tired.”
Holden started up the ladder to ops and the cockpit. In the shiny black
surface of a deactivated wall panel, Naomi’s reflection smirked at his back.
He couldn’t understand how Belters, thin as pencils, bounced back from
high g so quickly. Decades of practice and selective breeding, he assumed.
In ops, Holden strapped into the command console, the crash couch
material silently conforming to his body. At the half g Ade put them on for
the final approach, the foam felt good. He let a small groan slip out. The
switches, plastic and metal made to withstand hard g and hundreds of years,
clicked sharply. The Knight responded with an array of glowing diagnostic
indicators and a near-subliminal hum.
A few minutes later, Holden glanced over to see Alex Kamal’s thinning
black hair appear, followed by his round cheerful face, a deep brown that
years of shipboard life couldn’t pale. Martian-raised, Alex had a frame that
was thicker than a Belter’s. He was slender compared to Holden, and even

so, his flight suit stretched tight against his spreading waistline. Alex had
flown in the Martian navy, but he’d clearly given up on the military-style
fitness routine.
“Howdy, XO,” he drawled. The old west affectation common to
everyone from the Mariner Valley annoyed Holden. There hadn’t been a
cowboy on Earth in a hundred years, and Mars didn’t have a blade of grass
that wasn’t under a dome, or a horse that wasn’t in a zoo. Mariner Valley
had been settled by East Indians, Chinese, and a small contingent of Texans.
Apparently, the drawl was viral. They all had it now. “How’s the old
warhorse today?”
“Smooth so far. We need a flight plan. Ade will be bringing us to
relative stop in”—he checked the time readout—“forty, so work fast. I want
to get out, get it done, and get the Cant back on course to Ceres before she
starts rusting.”
“Roger that,” Alex said, climbing up to the Knight’s cockpit.
Holden’s headset clicked; then Naomi’s voice said, “Amos and Shed are
aboard. We’re all ready down here.”
“Thanks. Just waiting on flight numbers from Alex and we’ll be ready to
go.”
The crew was the minimum necessary: Holden as command, Alex to get
them there and back, Shed in case there were survivors to treat, Naomi and
Amos for salvage if there weren’t.
It wasn’t long before Alex called down, “Okay, Boss. It’ll be about a
four-hour trip flyin’ teakettle. Total mass use at about thirty percent, but
we’ve got a full tank. Total mission time: eleven hours.”
“Copy that. Thanks, Alex,” Holden said.
Flying teakettle was naval slang for flying on the maneuvering thrusters
that used superheated steam for reaction mass. The Knight’s fusion torch
would be dangerous to use this close to the Canterbury and wasteful on
such a short trip. Torches were pre-Epstein fusion drives and far less
efficient.
“Calling for permission to leave the barn,” Holden said, and clicked
from internal comm to the link with the Canterbury’s bridge. “Holden here.
Knight is ready to fly.”
“Okay, Jim, go ahead,” McDowell said. “Ade’s bringing her to a stop
now. You kids be careful out there. That shuttle is expensive and I’ve

always sort of had a thing for Naomi.”
“Roger that, Captain,” Holden said. Back on the internal comm, he
buzzed Alex. “Go ahead and take us out.”
Holden leaned back in his chair and listened to the creaks of the
Canterbury’s final maneuvers, the steel and ceramics as loud and ominous
as the wood planks of a sailing ship. Or an Earther’s joints after high g. For
a moment, Holden felt sympathy for the ship.
They weren’t really stopping, of course. Nothing in space ever actually
stopped; it only came into a matching orbit with some other object. They
were now following CA-2216862 on its merry millennium-long trip around
the sun.
Ade sent them the green light, and Holden emptied out the hangar bay
air and popped the doors. Alex took them out of the dock on white cones of
superheated steam.
They went to find the Scopuli.

CA-2216862 was a rock a half kilometer across that had wandered away
from the Belt and been yanked around by Jupiter’s enormous gravity. It had
eventually found its own slow orbit around the sun in the vast expanse
between Jupiter and the Belt, territory empty even for space.
The sight of the Scopuli resting gently against the asteroid’s side, held in
place by the rock’s tiny gravity, gave Holden a chill. Even if it was flying
blind, every instrument dead, its odds of hitting such an object by chance
were infinitesimally low. It was a half-kilometer-wide roadblock on a
highway millions of kilometers in diameter. It hadn’t arrived there by
accident. He scratched the hairs standing up on the back of his neck.
“Alex, hold us at two klicks out,” Holden said. “Naomi, what can you
tell me about that ship?”
“Hull configuration matches the registry information. It’s definitely the
Scopuli. She’s not radiating in the electromagnetic or infrared. Just that little

distress beacon. Looks like the reactor’s shut down. Must have been manual
and not damage, because we aren’t getting any radiation leakage either,”
Naomi said.
Holden looked at the pictures they were getting from the Knight’s
scopes, as well as the image the Knight created by bouncing a laser off the
Scopuli’s hull. “What about that thing that looks like a hole in the side?”
“Uh,” Naomi said. “Ladar says it’s a hole in the side.”
Holden frowned. “Okay, let’s stay here for a minute and recheck the
neighborhood. Anything on the scope, Naomi?”
“Nope. And the big array on the Cant can spot a kid throwing rocks on
Luna. Becca says there’s nobody within twenty million klicks right now,”
Naomi said.
Holden tapped out a complicated rhythm on the arm of his chair and
drifted up in the straps. He felt hot, and reached over to aim the closest aircirculation nozzle at his face. His scalp tingled with evaporating sweat.
If you see anything out there that seems off, don’t play hero again. Just
pack up the toys and come home. Those were his orders. He looked at the
image of the Scopuli, the hole in its side.
“Okay,” he said. “Alex, take us in to a quarter klick, and hold station
there. We’ll ride to the surface on the mech. Oh, and keep the torch warmed
up and ready. If something nasty is hiding in that ship, I want to be able to
run away as fast as I can and melt anything behind us into slag while I do it.
Roger?”
“Got it, Boss. Knight’s in run-like-a-bunny mode till you say otherwise,”
Alex replied.
Holden looked over the command console one more time, searching for
the flashing red warning light that would give him permission to go back to
the Cant. Everything remained a soft green. He popped open his buckles
and shoved himself out of the chair. A push on the wall with one foot sent
him over to the ladder, and he descended headfirst with gentle touches on
the rungs.
In the crew area, Naomi, Amos, and Shed were still strapped into their
crash couches. Holden caught the ladder and swung around so that his crew
didn’t look upside down. They started undoing their restraints.
“Okay, here’s the situation. The Scopuli got holed, and someone left it
floating next to this rock. No one is on the scopes, so maybe that means it

happened a while ago and they left. Naomi, you’ll be driving the salvage
mech, and the three of us will tether on and catch a ride down to the wreck.
Shed, you stay with the mech unless we find an injured person, which
seems unlikely. Amos and I will go into the ship through that hole and poke
around. If we find anything even remotely booby trap–like, we will come
back to the mech, Naomi will fly us back to the Knight, and we will run
away. Any questions?”
Amos raised one beefy hand. “Maybe we oughta be armed, XO. Case
there’s piratey types still lurking aboard.”
Holden laughed. “Well, if there are, then their ride left without them.
But if it makes you feel more comfortable, go ahead and bring a gun.”
If the big, burly Earther mechanic was carrying a gun, it would make
him feel better too, but better not to say it. Let them think the guy in charge
felt confident.
Holden used his officer’s key to open the weapon locker, and Amos took
a high-caliber automatic that fired self-propelled rounds, recoilless and
designed for use in zero g. Old-fashioned slug throwers were more reliable,
but in null gravity they were also maneuvering thrusters. A traditional
handgun would impart enough thrust to achieve escape velocity from a rock
the size of CA-2216862.
The crew drifted down to the cargo bay, where the egg-shaped, spiderlegged open cage of Naomi’s mech waited. Each of the four legs had a
manipulator claw at the end and a variety of cutting and welding tools built
into it. The back pair could grip on to a ship’s hull or other structure for
leverage, and the front two could be used to make repairs or chop salvage
into portable pieces.
“Hats on,” Holden said, and the crew helped each other put on and
secure their helmets. Everyone checked their own suit and then someone
else’s. When the cargo doors opened, it would be too late to make sure they
were buttoned up right.
While Naomi climbed into her mech, Amos, Holden, and Shed secured
their suit tethers to the cockpit’s metal cage. Naomi checked the mech and
then hit the switch to cycle the cargo bay’s atmosphere and open the doors.
Sound inside Holden’s suit faded to just the hiss of air and the faint static of
the radio. The air had a slight medicine smell.

Naomi went first, taking the mech down toward the asteroid’s surface on
small jets of compressed nitrogen, the crew trailing her on three-meter-long
tethers. As they flew, Holden looked back up at the Knight: a blocky gray
wedge with a drive cone stuck on the wider end. Like everything else
humans built for space travel, it was designed to be efficient, not pretty.
That always made Holden a little sad. There should be room for aesthetics,
even out here.
The Knight seemed to drift away from him, getting smaller and smaller,
while he didn’t move. The illusion vanished when he turned around to look
at the asteroid and felt they were hurtling toward it. He opened a channel to
Naomi, but she was humming to herself as she flew, which meant she, at
least, wasn’t worried. He didn’t say anything, but he left the channel open
to listen to her hum.
Up close, the Scopuli didn’t look all that bad. Other than the gaping hole
in its flank, it didn’t have any damage. It clearly hadn’t hit the asteroid; it
had just been left close enough that the microgravity had slowly reeled it in.
As they approached, he snapped pictures with his suit helmet and
transmitted them to the Canterbury.
Naomi brought them to a stop, hovering three meters above the hole in
the Scopuli’s side. Amos whistled across the general suit channel.
“That wasn’t a torpedo did this, XO. This was a breaching charge. See
how the metal’s bent in all around the edges? That’s shaped charges stuck
right on her hull,” Amos said.
In addition to being a fine mechanic, Amos was the one who used
explosive surgery to crack open the icebergs floating around Saturn and
turn them into more manageable chunks. Another reason to have him on the
Knight.
“So,” Holden said, “our friends here on the Scopuli stop, let someone
climb onto their hull and plant a breaching charge, and then crack them
open and let all the air out. Does that make sense to anyone?”
“Nope,” Naomi said. “It doesn’t. Still want to go inside?”
If you see anything out there that seems off, don’t play hero again. Just
pack up the toys and come home.
But what could he have expected? Of course the Scopuli wasn’t up and
running. Of course something had gone wrong. Off would have been not
seeing anything strange.

“Amos,” Holden said, “keep that gun out, just in case. Naomi, can you
make us a bigger hole? And be careful. If anything looks wrong, back us
off.”
Naomi brought the mech in closer, nitrogen blasts no more than a white
breath on a cold night. The mech’s welding torch blazed to life, red hot,
then white, then blue. In silence, the mech’s arms unfurled—an insectile
movement—and Naomi started cutting. Holden and Amos dropped to the
ship’s surface, clamping on with magnetic boots. He could feel the vibration
in his feet when Naomi pulled a length of hull free. A moment later the
torch turned off, and Naomi blasted the fresh edges of the hole with the
mech’s fire-suppression gear to cool them. Holden gave Amos the thumbsup and dropped himself very slowly into the Scopuli.
The breaching charge had been placed almost exactly amidships,
blasting a hole into the galley. When Holden landed and his boots grabbed
on to the galley wall, he could feel flash-frozen bits of food crunch under
them. There were no bodies in sight.
“Come on in, Amos. No crew visible yet,” Holden called over the suit
comm.
He moved off to the side and a moment later Amos dropped in, gun
clutched in his right hand and a powerful light in his left. The white beam
played across the walls of the destroyed galley.
“Which way first, XO?” Amos asked.
Holden tapped on his thigh with one hand and thought. “Engineering. I
want to know why the reactor’s off-line.”
They took the crew ladder, climbing along it toward the aft of the ship.
All the pressure doors between decks were open, which was a bad sign.
They should all be closed by default, and certainly if the atmosphere-loss
alarm had sounded. If they were open, that meant there were no decks with
atmosphere left in the ship. Which meant no survivors. Not a surprise, but it
still felt like a defeat. They passed through the small ship quickly, pausing
in the machine shop. Expensive engine parts and tools were still in place.
“Guess it wasn’t robbery,” Amos said.
Holden didn’t say, Then what was it? but the question hung between
them anyway.
The engine room was neat as a pin, cold, and dead. Holden waited while
Amos looked it over, spending at least ten minutes just floating around the

reactor.
“Someone went through the shutdown procedures,” Amos said. “The
reactor wasn’t killed by the blast, it was turned off afterward. No damage
that I can see. Don’t make sense. If everyone is dead from the attack, who
shut it down? And if it’s pirates, why not take the ship? She’ll still fly.”
“And before they turned off the power, they went through and opened
every interior pressure door on the ship. Emptied out the air. I guess they
wanted to make sure no one was hiding,” Holden said. “Okay, let’s head
back up to ops and see if we can crack the computer core. Maybe it can tell
us what happened.”
They floated back toward the bow along the crew ladder, and up to the
ops deck. It too was undamaged and empty. The lack of bodies was starting
to bother Holden more than the presence of them would have. He floated
over to the main computer console and hit a few keys to see if it might still
be running on backup power. It wasn’t.
“Amos, start cutting the core out. We’ll take it with us. I’m going to
check comms, see if I can find that beacon.”
Amos moved to the computer and started taking out tools and sticking
them to the bulkhead next to it. He began a profanity-laced mumble as he
worked. It wasn’t nearly as charming as Naomi’s humming, so Holden
turned off his link to Amos while he moved to the communications console.
It was as dead as the rest of the ship. He found the ship’s beacon.
No one had activated it. Something else had called them. Holden moved
back, frowning.
He looked through the space, searching for something out of place.
There, on the deck beneath the comm operator’s console. A small black box
not connected to anything else.
His heart took a long pause between beats. He called out to Amos,
“Does that look like a bomb to you?”
Amos ignored him. Holden turned his radio link back on.
“Amos, does that look like a bomb to you?” He pointed at the box on the
deck.
Amos left his work on the computer and floated over to look, then, in a
move that made Holden’s throat close, grabbed the box off the deck and
held it up.

“Nope. It’s a transmitter. See?” He held it up in front of Holden’s
helmet. “It’s just got a battery taped to it. What’s it doing there?”
“It’s the beacon we followed. Jesus. The ship’s beacon never even
turned on. Someone made a fake one out of that transmitter and hooked it
up to a battery,” Holden said quietly, still fighting his panic.
“Why would they do that, XO? That don’t make no kinda sense.”
“It would if there’s something about this transmitter that’s different from
standard,” Holden said.
“Like?”
“Like if it had a second signal triggered to go when someone found it,”
Holden said, then switched to the general suit channel. “Okay, boys and
girls, we’ve found something weird, and we’re out of here. Everyone back
to the Knight, and be very careful when you—”
His radio crackled to life on the outside channel, McDowell’s voice
filling his helmet. “Jim? We may have a problem.”

Chapter Four: Miller
Miller was halfway through his evening meal when the system in his hole
chirped. He glanced at the sending code. The Blue Frog. It was a port bar
catering to the constant extra million noncitizens of Ceres that advertised
itself as a near-exact replica of a famous Earth bar in Mumbai, only with
licensed prostitutes and legal drugs. Miller took another forkful of fungal
beans and vat-grown rice and debated whether to accept connection.
Should have seen this one coming, he thought.
“What?” he asked.
A screen popped open. Hasini, the assistant manager, was a darkskinned man with eyes the color of ice. The near smirk on his face was the
result of nerve damage. Miller had done him a favor when Hasini had had
the poor judgment to take pity on an unlicensed prostitute. Since then,
security detective and portside barman had traded favors. The unofficial,
gray economics of civilization.
“Your partner’s here again,” Hasini said over the pulse and wail of
bhangra music. “I think he’s having a bad night. Should I keep serving
him?”
“Yeah,” Miller said. “Keep him happy for… Give me twenty minutes.”
“He doesn’t want to be kept happy. He very much wants a reason to get
unhappy.”
“Make it hard to find. I’ll be there.”
Hasini nodded, smirking his damaged smirk, and dropped the
connection. Miller looked at his half-eaten meal, sighed, and shoved the
remains into the recycling bin. He pulled on a clean shirt, then hesitated.
The Blue Frog was always warmer than he liked, and he hated wearing a
jacket. Instead, he put a compact plastic pistol in his ankle holster. Not as
fast a draw, but if it got that far, he was screwed anyway.

Ceres at night was indistinguishable from Ceres in the daytime. There
had been a move, back when the station first opened, to dim and brighten
the lights through the traditional human twenty-four-hour cycle, mimicking
the spin of Earth. The affectation had lasted four months before the council
killed it.
On duty, Miller would have taken an electric cart down the wide tunnels
and down to the port levels. He was tempted even though he was off duty,
but a deep-seated superstition stopped him. If he took the cart, he was going
as a cop, and the tubes ran just fine. Miller walked to the nearest station,
checked the status, and sat on the low stone bench. A man about Miller’s
age and a girl no more than three came in a minute later and sat across from
him. The girl’s talk was as fast and meaningless as a leaking seal, and her
father responded with grunts and nods at more or less appropriate moments.
Miller and the new man nodded to each other. The girl tugged at her
father’s sleeve, demanding his attention. Miller looked at her—dark eyes,
pale hair, smooth skin. She was already too tall to be mistaken for an Earth
child, her limbs longer and thinner. Her skin had the pink flush of Belter
babies, which came with the pharmaceutical cocktail that assured that their
muscles and bones would grow strong. Miller saw the father notice his
attention. Miller smiled and nodded toward the kid.
“How old?” he asked.
“Two and a half,” the father said.
“Good age.”
The father shrugged, but he smiled.
“Kids?” he asked.
“No,” Miller said. “But I’ve a got a divorce about that old.”
They chuckled together as if it was funny. In his imagination, Candace
crossed her arms and looked away. The soft oil-and-ozone-scented breeze
announced the tube’s arrival. Miller let father and child go first, then chose
a different compartment.
The tube cars were round, built to fit into the evacuated passages. There
were no windows. The only view would have been stone humming by three
centimeters from the car. Instead, broad screens advertised entertainment
feeds or commented on inner planet political scandals or offered the chance
to gamble away a week’s pay at casinos so wonderful that your life would
seem richer for the experience. Miller let the bright, empty colors dance and

ignored their content. Mentally, he was holding up his problem, turning it
one way and then the other, not even looking for an answer.
It was a simple mental exercise. Look at the facts without judgment:
Havelock was an Earther. Havelock was in a portside bar again and looking
for a fight. Havelock was his partner. Statement after statement, fact after
fact, facet after facet. He didn’t try to put them in order or make some kind
of narrative out of them; that would all come later. Now it was enough to
wash the day’s cases out of his head and get ready for the immediate
situation. By the time the tube reached his station, he felt centered. Like he
was walking on his whole foot, was how he’d described it, back when he
had anyone to describe it to.
The Blue Frog was crowded, the barn-heat of bodies adding to the fakeMumbai temperature and artificial air pollution. Lights glittered and flashed
in seizure-inducing display. Tables curved and undulated, the backlight
making them seem darker than merely black. Music moved through the air

